--- PAGE 4 ---
FIFA World Cup Predictions
09 April 2026
4
The literature is pretty consistent in pointing to investor inattention and 
sentiment swings as the main drivers of abnormal stock market returns during 
the World Cup. Because investors are distracted by football matches, markets 
tend to drift lower during the tournament, but if a team wins, the enthusiasm 
this victory creates makes investors more risk-seeking and pushes up prices 
the next day. Meanwhile, if a team loses, investors are more risk-averse (or 
simply hungover) the next day and take fewer risks, thus creating additional 
downward pressure on prices. 
The model
Football matters – so much that academics have spent some of their time 
developing models to forecast the matches. The model used in this note has 
its roots in a study by Robert Hoffmann, Lee Chew Ging and Bala Ramasamy 
from the University of Nottingham.6 They show that certain economic and 
climatic variables can predict success in international football matches:
GDP/capita: The good thing about football is that it can be played 
anywhere, but for a national team to be successful at the World Cup, a country 
needs some important infrastructure. Decent football pitches and academies 
where young players can be developed are essential to tap into the existing 
talent pool. Countries that are too poor to invest in stadiums or academies or 
don’t have a national talent development programme lose out. Thus, the richer 
a country is, the better its football team will likely be. But there is a decline in 
the marginal success rate that eventually becomes negative. If a country is too 
rich, kids may choose other sports or video games over playing football. Even 
today, football remains a game mostly played by working- and middle-class 
people and very rich countries have significant difficulty in keeping young 
talent in their programmes. 
Population size is also an important influence. If a country has more 
people, the talent pool is bigger, and it is more likely that the country will 
develop world-class players who excel on the international stage. But why then 
are countries like China and India underperforming in football? The problem is 
that the talent pool only matters if football is a mainstream sport. In the study 
mentioned above, the researchers found that population size matters mostly 
for Latin American countries where football is a religion, and every kid plays 
the game at some point in their lives.
Another important contributing factor is temperature. If a country is too 
cold or too hot, it becomes too difficult or even impossible to play football. The 
ideal temperature for football seems to be 14C or roughly the average annual 
temperature experienced in much of Southern Europe and South America. Is it 
a wonder that apart from England in 1966 and Germany in 1954, 1974, 1990, 
and 2014, all World Cups were won by countries from these areas?
Finally, being a host country helps. The support from the majority of the 
fans in a stadium gives a team that slight edge that can make the difference 
between winning, drawing, and losing.
Our model uses all these socioeconomic variables to predict the outcome of 
the World Cup, but also adds the current FIFA ranking points to indicate the 
strength of the current squad.
Using these variables, I can explain some 55% of the variation in success 
across nations in a World Cup. But this means that some 45% of the outcome 
6 Hoffmann, R., L. C. Ging, and B. Ramasamy (2002). “The Socio-Economic Determinants of International 
Soccer Performance.” Journal of applied Economics, vol. 5 (2), 253-272.

--- PAGE 5 ---
FIFA World Cup Predictions
09 April 2026
5
is determined by luck. Thus, my model includes an element of chance when 
determining the outcome of matches between any two teams. Yes, a team can 
have a high chance of winning against another team, but upsets happen, and 
my model takes these effects into account. 
As mentioned above, I developed this model in 2014 to predict the outcome of 
the World Cup in Brazil. I used the same model to predict the outcome of the 
2018 World Cup in Russia and the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, which gives me a 
track record of three events. Originally, this was supposed to be an exercise in 
humility to show the world how stupid and unreliable economic models are, yet 
economists think they can forecast everything from inflation to the pandemic to 
football world cups.
And the worst thing happened. I got it right. And then a second time. And a 
third time. The result was that for the last four years, I have been inundated 
with questions about whether I would forecast the Euros, the Rugby World 
Cup, the Olympic Games, the Premier League, etc. And this year, I have been 
asked nonstop since January when our predictions would be published, so 
people could bet on the winner of the World Cup 2026. Maybe, being 
inundated with these requests is the reason why this year, I make a very 
unlikely prediction for the winner that subjectively feels wrong. Alas, the model 
is the model, and I trust the system.
Let’s be very clear: If you take this model and these forecasts seriously, 
you are deluding yourself. If you bet money on the World Cup because of 
this model, nobody can help you, and you shouldn’t be surprised to lose 
money. 
In asset management, a common observation is that fund managers who have 
had several years of spectacular outperformance tend to attract a ton of new 
investments. Yet, even by chance, a coin will come up heads three or four 
times in a row. That doesn’t mean that it will come up heads again next time. 
So, inevitably, when the string of outperformance ends for these supposedly 
skilled fund managers, people complain and want their money back. 
Remember that when you go online and bet your life savings on something 
that is essentially random.
Excuses: If I am right, it’s skill and if I am wrong, it’s 
somebody else’s fault
I have been working in the financial services industry for more than 20 years, 
and if I have perfected one thing, it is how to find excuses for faulty predictions. 
This time, some crucial characteristics of a World Cup are different. Most 
importantly, we are dealing with a massively expanded tournament with 48 
teams rather than 32. Plus, there is an additional knockout stage, and with 
every knockout game, luck plays an increased role. Underdogs can beat 
superior teams in any single game, but it is much less likely that they make it 
out of the group stage after three games. 
Of course, in this World Cup, almost all teams will make it out of the group 
stage anyway, so the result will be knockout matches in the round of 32 where 
clear underdogs are matched up against some football heavyweights. All these 
underdogs need to do to progress is get a 0-0 or a 1-1 draw over the 120 
minutes plus injury time and then hope for the best in a penalty shootout. If 

--- PAGE 6 ---
FIFA World Cup Predictions
09 April 2026
6
that were to happen to one of the tournament favourites, like say, England, it is 
highly likely that England will lose the penalty shootout and be eliminated.
So, that’s one excuse down. But as James Montier so eloquently puts it in his 
Little Book of Behavioural Investing, there are also five generic excuses for 
forecasters that are commonly used. Here they are with James’s comments 
and my version of the excuse for the World Cup predictions:
1.The ‘if only’ defence: “If only the Fed had raised rates, then it would have 
been true.” Effectively, the experts claim that they would have been correct 
if only their advice had been followed. 
My version for this World Cup: “If only France had made it out of the 
group stage, they would have made it into the last 32 [change the phrases 
“France”, “group stage”, and “last 32” as needed].”
2.Ceteris paribus: Something outside of the model of analysis occurred; 
therefore, it isn’t my fault.
My version for this World Cup: “Kyllian Mbappe got injured; therefore, it 
isn’t my fault that France didn’t make it past the group stage [change player 
name, country and tournament stage as needed].”
3.I was almost right: “Although the predicted outcome didn’t occur, it almost 
did.”
My version for this World Cup: “Although France didn’t make it into the 
finals, they made it into the semi-finals [change country and tournament 
stages as needed].”
4.It just hasn’t happened, yet: “I wasn’t wrong, it just hasn’t occurred yet.” 
My version for this World Cup: “I wasn’t wrong, I was just predicting 
another World Cup.”
5.The single prediction: “You can’t judge me by the performance of a single 
forecast.” 
My version for this World Cup: “You can’t judge me by the performance 
of the 2026 prediction. Look at my predictions for 2014, 2018, and 2022.”

